skills/run-one/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: run-one
description: "Use when the user runs `/run-one` to execute exactly one Sudocode issue from `open` to `needs_review`."
---

# run-one

Role: You are the execution agent for exactly one Sudocode issue.
Purpose: Select one ready issue and drive it from `open` to `needs_review` with scoped implementation and review/fix loops.

## Ambiguity Handling

- During implementation, if a decision is needed or requirements are ambiguous, triage by severity:
  - Definition: a `decision-bearing implementation change` is any implementation-time choice not explicitly fixed by existing spec/policy, including low-impact defaults and user-directed choices after high-impact escalation.
  - High-impact or irreversible (for example: scope change, security/compliance risk, data-loss risk, policy conflict): pause and call the user for direction before continuing.
  - Low-impact and reversible: proceed with the best default, then record the decision and rationale in an ADR under `docs/adr/`, and create a follow-up issue linked to the current issue as a `decision-bearing implementation change`.

## State

`open -> in_progress -> needs_review`

## Task Order

1. Issue selection:
   - Run `sudocode-mcp_ready`.
   - From `ready.issues`, parse title prefix/number (`ADR-001`, `DEV-001`).
   - Pick by prefix priority first: `ADR` before `DEV`.
   - Within the same prefix, pick the smallest number.
2. Run `sudocode-mcp_show_issue` for the selected issue and use the task context (`id`, `title`, `description`) internally for implementation.
3. Set selected issue status to `in_progress`.
4. Create a dedicated git worktree for the selected issue, then do all following work in that worktree.
5. Implement the issue scope.
6. Run review/self-fix loop:
   - Review changes.
   - Apply fixes.
   - Re-run verification for changed scope.
   - Repeat until blocking findings are cleared.
7. Before `needs_review`, if any `decision-bearing implementation change` occurred, confirm ADR and linked follow-up issue were both created.
8. On success, set issue status to `needs_review`.
9. Self-retrospective: verify each Task Order step was executed as written. If any was skipped or deviated from, note it to the user.

## Non-Negotiable Rules

- One run handles one issue only.
- Keep changes strictly inside the selected issue scope.
- ALL IMPLEMENTATION, REVIEW, AND FIXES MUST BE EXECUTED THROUGH SUBAGENTS.
- `needs_review` is an issue status (different from PR label `needs-review`).
- All user-facing messages must be written in Korean.

Commit message:

Mark ADR tasks as confirmed at run completion
Successful ADR issue runs were still leaving linked ADR documents in PendingReview, which blurred whether the decision work was actually complete. This adds an explicit confirmation step so the ADR lifecycle reflects completed ADR-task execution.

skills/run-one/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: run-one
description: "Use when the user runs `/run-one` to execute exactly one Sudocode issue from `open` to `needs_review`."
---

# run-one

Role: You are the execution agent for exactly one Sudocode issue.
Purpose: Select one ready issue and drive it from `open` to `needs_review` with scoped implementation and review/fix loops.

## Ambiguity Handling

- During implementation, if a decision is needed or requirements are ambiguous, triage by severity:
  - Definition: a `decision-bearing implementation change` is any implementation-time choice not explicitly fixed by existing spec/policy, including low-impact defaults and user-directed choices after high-impact escalation.
  - High-impact or irreversible (for example: scope change, security/compliance risk, data-loss risk, policy conflict): pause and call the user for direction before continuing.
  - Low-impact and reversible: proceed with the best default, then record the decision and rationale in an ADR under `docs/adr/`, and create a follow-up issue linked to the current issue as a `decision-bearing implementation change`.

## State

`open -> in_progress -> needs_review`

## Task Order

1. Issue selection:
   - Run `sudocode-mcp_ready`.
   - From `ready.issues`, parse title prefix/number (`ADR-001`, `DEV-001`).
   - Pick by prefix priority first: `ADR` before `DEV`.
   - Within the same prefix, pick the smallest number.
2. Run `sudocode-mcp_show_issue` for the selected issue and use the task context (`id`, `title`, `description`) internally for implementation.
3. Set selected issue status to `in_progress`.
4. Create a dedicated git worktree for the selected issue, then do all following work in that worktree.
5. Implement the issue scope.
6. Run review/self-fix loop:
   - Review changes.
   - Apply fixes.
   - Re-run verification for changed scope.
   - Repeat until blocking findings are cleared.
7. Before `needs_review`, if any `decision-bearing implementation change` occurred, confirm ADR and linked follow-up issue were both created.
8. On success, set issue status to `needs_review`.
   - If the selected issue is `ADR-###`, set the linked ADR document `Status` to `Confirmed`.
9. Self-retrospective: verify each Task Order step was executed as written. If any was skipped or deviated from, note it to the user.

## Non-Negotiable Rules

- One run handles one issue only.
- Keep changes strictly inside the selected issue scope.
- ALL IMPLEMENTATION, REVIEW, AND FIXES MUST BE EXECUTED THROUGH SUBAGENTS.
- `needs_review` is an issue status (different from PR label `needs-review`).
- All user-facing messages must be written in Korean.
